INTRODUCTION
The full course is originally from Cousera in collaboration with IBM to make a Beginner course introduction to Data Science and its applications. This course covers statistics, algorithms, data cleaning, and guidance from Data Scientists active in the field. 
HYPOTHESIS
Sports teams may use data from overhead cameras to analyze most productive plays. Netflix and other streaming platforms may use machine learning to allocate resources to most watched genres. Lufthansa and other airlines may use data science to improve customer service. 








RESULTS
Nam liber tempor cum soluta nobis eleifend option congue nihil imperdiet doming id quod mazim placerat facer possim assum. Typi non habent claritatem insitam; est usus legentis in iis qui facit eorum claritatem. Investigationes demonstraverunt lectores legere me lius quod ii legunt saepius.
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet
Consectetuer adipiscing elit
Sed diam nonummy nibh euismod
CONCLUSION
What do Data Scientists do?
They investigate business problems by manipulating data with statistics and algorithms. For example, A Toronto public transit company tasks a data scientist to understand why half a million of their customers are complaining recently. A hypothesis around domain knowledge of transit service was formulated around weather conditions and more customer complaints. The data scientist confirmed this correlation through investigating the data on unexpected bad weather days. 
A second example is environmental problem investigation to predict algae blooms to water toxicity. Using neural networks to predict algae blooms, the data scientist was able to support water treatment companies safeguard the water quality. 
Third, a recommendation system can be made using machine learning algorithms for health care sectors. 
Fourth, regression analysis is crucial for machine learning applications for Real Estate roles. K Nearest Neighbors is also useful and relatively simple to use. 


Extensible Markup Language (XML)
-Similar to HTML but does not have predefined tags
-Platform independent
-Programming language independent
-Makes it simpler to share data between systems

Portable Document Format (PDF)
-Platform independent
-Financial and Legal documents

JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)
-Language independent
-Wide range compatibility with browsers
-Most popular language for APIs

Terms
Data Sources
Data Structure
Data Formats




Structured 
Test files






Spreadsheets






XML


Text
Unstructured
PDFs


Text, Audio, Video
Unstructured
JSON





Cloud Computing Questions
Describe cloud computing concepts
Define cloud deployment models and cloud service models
Identify the characteristics of cloud computing 
Delivery
Cloud computing is the delivery of computing resources such as networks, servers, storage, applications, and services. The three types of deployment models are public, private, and hybrid. The three types of cloud service models are based on three layers in a computing stack such as Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS). Five essential characteristics of cloud computing are on-demand self-service, broad network access, resource pooling, rapid elasticity, and measured service. Cloud computing supports data scientists because it can allow the computing power necessary to run complex algorithms on Big Data while also being able to store large amounts of data in a reliable public or private network. 

Cloud Characteristics
On-Demand
Access to processing, storage, and network
Network Access
Resources access via the Internet
Resource Pooling
Shared resources dynamically assigned 
Elasticity
Automatically scales resource access
Measured Service
Only pay for what you use or reserve


Big Data Computing Tools
Apache Hadoop
Apache Hive
Apache Spark
Java-based
Data Warehouse 
General purpose data processing engine
Node is a one computer
High Latency for queries
Can run on top of Hadoop
Cluster is collection of Nodes
Not suitable for transaction processing 
Can access data in HDFS and Hive
Social Media Sentiment, Audio, Video
Better suited for ETL, reporting, data analysis, SQL
In-memory processing increases speed of computations
Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS)
-Storage System


Process streaming data fast 
Splits large files across multiple computers allowing parallel access to them 


Perform complex analytics in real-time

Hadoop provides distributed storage with HDFS, Hive provides large data set management for queries and ETL, and Spark allows access to data processing engines in real-time. 

Machine Learning
-A subset of Ai that uses computer algorithms to analyze data and make intelligent decisions based on what it has learned, without being explicitly programmed. 
Deep Learning
-A subset of ML that uses layered neural networks to simulate human decision-making. It can label and categorize information and identify patterns. 
Data Science
-The process for extracting business intelligence from large volumes of disparate data. It involves statistics, machine learning, and data visualization. Data science is a broad term that covers the entire data processing from hypothesis, data collection, sources, analysis, prediction, and evaluation. 

Generative Ai
-A subset of Ai that focuses on producing new data rather than processing previous data.
-Generative Adversarial Networks (GANS)
-Variational Auto-Encoders (VAEs)
-Natural Language Processing can be used to provide chatbots for customer service, Healthcare industries uses Gen Ai to produce images of health conditions, Art and Design uses it to generate new images, Gaming industries use it to focus computing power on where the gamer directs their attention and provide a higher level of realism, Fashion uses it by providing new styles, Retail uses it to provide recommendation systems and increase upsells. 

Neural Networks and Deep Learning

Uber
-Uses real-time user data to discover how many drivers are available, if more are needed, and if they should allow a surge charge to attract more drivers. Uber uses data to put the right number of drivers in the right place at the right time for a price drivers are willing to pay. 
-Real-time data access allowed the algorithm to identify peak hour clearances and the most congested routes. Monthly hours lost to commuters dropped from 4.7 hours in 2010 to 3 hours in 2014. 
UPS
Used data from customers, drivers and vehicles to create a new route guidance system with machine learning. The goal was to save time, money, and fuel. 
Netflix
Uses data from which shows people are watching, what time of day, and when they are pausing, rewinding, and fast-forwarding. The search algorithm takes note on which shows, directors, and actors are most searched for. 
Use Case: Many users streamed the work of Executive Producer David Fincher, Films with Robin Wright consistently did well, and the British version of House of Cards was very successful. Netflix noticed that many people who like Fincher also liked Wright. This suggested that buying the American series would be a good investment for the company. 

Health Care
-Uses machine learning to conduct predictive analytics to analyze all known factors such as gene markers, associated conditions, and environment factors. It can recommend appropriate tests, suitable trials, and suggested treatment. 
Weather Tracking
The University of Warwick in the UK used social media content such as photos and keywords to track the development of floods, hurricanes and other weather events. When added to information recorded by scientists and weather stations, this type of data can be used to improve the predictions  for localized weather events. (Data Science)
Careers and Recruiting in DS
Understanding Inferential Statistics, Distributions in Statistics (R2, Confidence Interval), Relational Database Management, Probabilities.
Careers for DS come from companies that have a research department such as pharmaceutical or finance.
Employment Companies such as LinkedIn, Glassdoor, Indeed, Dice.
What Companies Look For
Curiosity - Asking the right questions
Passion - Excitement to work with data in the industry
Presenting - Telling a Story about the data, Think analytically and Computationally
Computer programming skills along with a knowledge of machine learning frameworks, mathematics, statistics, a passion for data, understand of domain knowledge for industry, curiosity mindset and skilled storytelling encompasses what a Data Scientist is. 
Reporting
What is gained, defined goals, significance, context, practicality and usefulness, future developments. 
Types of Data
Semi-Structured - Contains tags and elements, which is used to group data in a hierarchy.
Emails, XML, TCP/IP packets, Zipped files, Binary executables, JSON. XML files uses tags to identify the type of data in the file. XML is used for bank statements and surveys. 
 Unstructured - Web pages, social media feeds, PDF files, PowerPoint, Video and Audio files, surveys 
Web Scraping - APIs and Popular uses
Providing price comparisons by collecting product details from retailers and eCommerce websites
Generating sales leads through public data sources
Extracting data from posts and authors of various forums and communities
Collecting training and testing datasets for machine learning models
Retail transaction streams for predicting demand and supply chain management
Stock and market tickers for financial trading
Surveillance and video feeds for threat detection
Web click feeds for monitoring web performance and improving design
Real-time flight events for rebooking and rescheduling
Sensor data feeds for monitoring industrial or farming machinery
Social media feeds for sentiment analysis
Popular Data Streams
Apache Kafka, Apache Spark, Apache Storm

